Overriding values inside JSON and YAML (#5449)
karmada-io/karmada: docs/proposals/structured-configuration/README.md

---
title: Structured configuration overrider
authors:
- "@Patrick0308"
- "@sophiefeifeifeiya"
reviewers:
- "@chaunceyjiang"
approvers:
- "@chaunceyjiang"
creation-date: 2024-08-12
---

# Structured configuration overrider
## Summary

> The proposal introduces a new feature that allows users to partially override values inside  JSON and YAML fields. This is achieved using JSON patch operation. This design enables users to to override the values within JSON/YAML fields partially, rather than replacing a whole JSON/YAML fields with `PlaintextOverrider`. Currently, `PlaintextOverrider`  applies JSON patch operations to whole fields, rather than specific values within fields, making it unsuitable for cases where users need to override individual values within those fields.

Reviewer: nit hit: About `to to override`, word `to` is duplicated.

> The proposal introduces a new feature that allows users to partially override values inside  JSON and YAML fields. This is achieved using JSON patch operation. This design enables users to to override the values within JSON/YAML fields partially, rather than replacing a whole JSON/YAML fields with `PlaintextOverrider`. Currently, `PlaintextOverrider`  applies JSON patch operations to whole fields, rather than specific values within fields, making it unsuitable for cases where users need to override individual values within those fields.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The proposal introduces a new feature that allows users to partially override values inside  JSON and YAML fields. This is achieved using JSON patch operation. This design enables users to override the values within JSON/YAML fields partially, rather than replacing a whole JSON/YAML fields with `PlaintextOverrider`. Currently, `PlaintextOverrider`  applies JSON patch operations to whole fields, rather than specific values within fields, making it unsuitable for cases where users need to override individual values within those fields.
```

    OverriderOpReplace OverriderOperator = "replace"
)
```

### User usage example
For example, consider a ConfigMap with the following data in member cluster:
```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: ConfigMap
metadata:
  name: example-config
data:
  db-config.yaml: |
    database:
      host: localhost
      port: 3306
```
The following is OverridePolicy which uses FieldOverrider:
```yaml
apiVersion: karmada.io/v1alpha1
kind: OverridePolicy
metadata:
  name: example-configmap-override
spec:
  resourceSelectors:
    - apiVersion: v1
      kind: ConfigMap
      name: example-config
  overrideRules:
    - overriders:
        fieldOverrider:
          - fieldPath: /data/db-config.yaml
            yaml:
              - subPath: /database/host
                operator: replace
                value: "remote-db.example.com"
              - subPath: /database/port
                operator: replace
                value: "3307"
```
After we apply this policy, we can modify the db-config.yaml
```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: ConfigMap
metadata:
  name: example-config
data:
  db-config.yaml: |
    database:
      host: remote-db.example.com
      port: 3307
```

### YAML Implementation

We choose Plan1.

> (1) Plan1 is easy to implmenet by converting YAML directly to JSON, while Plan2 has to encapsulate ytt's grammar as if it is JSON patch.

Reviewer: nit hit: Spell mistake `implmenet`

(2) Plan1 and Plan2 both have the same issues illustrated in the following.

#### Plan 1: directly convert to and back from JSON (chosen)

> If YAML directly converts to JSON and convert back with ("sigs.k8s.io/yaml"), it will lose some data type information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If YAML is directly converted to JSON and then converted back using the 'sigs.k8s.io/yaml' package, it will lose some data type information.
```
